[MUSIC]
In lesson one,
we defined a statistical model.
As a mathematical structure
used to imitate or
approximate the data generating process.
It incorporates uncertainty and
variability using
the theory of probability.
A model could be very simple,
involving only one variable.
For example, suppose our data consists
of the heights of n=15 adult men.
So we have the heights of n=15 men.
Clearly it would be very expensive or
even impossible to collect
the genetic information.
That fully explains the variability
in these men's heights.
We only have the height
measurements available to us.
To account for the variability,
we might assume that the men's
heights follow a normal distribution.
So we could write the model like this, yi
will represent the height for
person i, i will be our index.
This will be equal to a constant,
a number mu which
will represents the mean for
all men plus epsilon I.
This is the individual error term for
individual i.
We're going to assume that
epsilon i comes from a normal
distribution with mean zero and
variance sigma squared.
We are also going to assume that
these epsilons are independent and
identically distributed from
this normal distribution.
This is also for i equal to 1 up
to n which will be 15 in our case.
Equivalently we could write this
model directly for the yi themselves.
So each yi comes from a normal
distribution independent and
identically distributed with
the normal distribution.
With mean mu and variance sigma squared.
This specifies a probability
distribution and a model for the data.
If we know the values of mu and sigma.
It also suggests how we might
generate more fake data that behaves
similarly to our original data set.
A model can be as simple as the one
right here or as complicated and
sophisticated as we need to
capture the behavior of the data.
So far, this model is the same for
frequentists and Bayesians.
As you may recall from
the previous course.
The frequentist approach to
fitting this model right here.
Would be to consider mu and
sigma to be fixed but
unknown constants, and
then we would estimate them.
To calculate our uncertainty
in those estimates.
A frequentist approach would consider
how much the estimates of mu and
sigma might change.
If we were to repeat
the sampling process and
obtain another sample of 15 men,
over, and over.
The Bayesian approach,
the one we're going to take in this class.
Tackles our uncertainty in mu and
sigma squared with probability directly.
By treating them as random variables with
their own probability distributions.
These are often called priors, and
they complete a Bayesian model.
In the rest of this segment,
we're going to review three key
components of Bayesian models.
That were used extensively
in the previous course
The three primary components of
Bayesian models that we often
work with are the likelihood,
the prior and the posterior.
The likelihood
is the probabilistic model for the data.
It describes how, given the unknown
parameters, the data might be generated.
It can be written like this,
the probability of y, the theta.
Given theta, we're going to call
unknown parameter theta right here.
Also, in this expression, you might
recognize this from the previous class,
as describing a probability distribution.
It might be, for example, the density
of the distribution, if y were normal.
Or y were discrete, this might actually
represent the probability itself.
We're just going to use for
our notation a generic p right here.
The prior, the next step,
is the probability
distribution that characterizes our
uncertainty with the parameter theta.
We're going to write it as p of theta.
It's not the same
distribution as this one.
We're just using this notation
p to represent the probability
distribution of theta.
By specifying a likelihood and a prior.
We now have a joint probability model for
both the knowns,
the data, and the unknowns,
the parameters.
We can see this by using
the chain rule of probability.
If we wanted the joint distribution of
both the data and the parameters theta.
Using the chain rule of probability,
we could start with
the distribution of theta.
And multiply that by the probability or
the distribution of y given theta.
That gives us an expression for
the joint distribution.
However if we're going to make
inferences about data and
we already know the values of y.
We don't need the joint distribution, what
we need is the posterior distribution.
The posterior distribution
is the distribution
of theta conditional on y, theta given y.
We can obtain this expression
right here using the laws of
conditional probability and
specifically using Bayes' theorem.
If we start with the laws
of conditional probability.
The conditional distribution of
theta given y will be the joint
distribution of theta and y.
The same as this one right here divided by
the marginal distribution of y by itself.
How do we get the marginal
distribution of y?
We start with the joint
distribution like we have on top,
And now, we're going to integrate out or
marginalize over the values of theta.
Finally, to make this look like the Bayes
theorem that we're familiar with.
You'll notice that the joint distribution
can be written as the product of
the prior and the likelihood.
I'm going to start with the likelihood.
because that's how we
usually write Bayes' theorem.
Again we have the same thing
in the denominator here.
But we're going to integrate
over the values of theta.
[COUGH] These integrals right here
are replaced by summations if
we know that theta is
a discrete random variable.
The marginal distribution right
here of y in the denominator is
another important piece.
Which you may use if you do more
advanced Bayesian modeling.
The posterior distribution
is our primary tool for
achieving the statistical modeling
objectives from lesson one.
[MUSIC]